# Methodology-of-a-Large-Scale-Bicycle-Exposure-Estimation

## Md Mintu Miah1, Julia Griswold2, John Bigham3, Frank Proulx4, Offer Grembeck5
1Postdoctoral Researcher, Safe Transportation Research and Education Center (SafeTREC), University of California, Berkeley, Email: mmmiah@berkeley.edu, ORCID: 0000-0001-6073-3896, Address: Allston, Suit-400, Berkeley, CA-94704, USA.  
2Researcher, Safe Transportation Research and Education Center (SafeTREC), University of California, Berkeley, Email: juliagris@berkeley.edu, ORCID: 0000-0002-1125-3316, Address: Allston, Suit-400, Berkeley, CA-94704, USA.  
3Researcher, Safe Transportation Research and Education Center (SafeTREC), University of California, Berkeley, Email: jbigham@berkeley.edu, ORCID: , Address: Allston, Suit-400, Berkeley, CA-94704, USA.  
4Senior Data Scientist, Urban Footprint, Email: frank@frankproulxconsulting.com, ORCID: 0000-0001-5157-0300, Address: 
5Transportation Safety Expert, Zoox, Email: grembek@gmail.com, ORCID: 0000-0003-1869-9457, Address: San Francisco, CA-94404, USA.  

                                                                                    #Abstract [249 words]
Large-scale network design, safety, and crash estimates largely depend on networkwide bicycling exposure estimation. Previous studies developed direct demand models on a small scale (e.g., city or county) where exposure count and seasonality did not vary widely. The applicability of such a smaller-scale method is questionable for large-scale applications. This study aims to develop a technique that can be implemented in large-scale bicycle exposure estimation. The study considered the entire California (CA) State as the methodology implementation and used data from 203 unique permanent counters to develop three different types of expansion factors: Hour of Day (HOD) for both weekdays and weekends, Day of Week (DOW), and Month of Year (MOY) factors. The developed expansion factors were applied for imputing 2599 (3573 legs) short-term site locations to estimate annual total traffic (ATT) exposure. Finally, estimated ATT from both eco and short-term sites was used to develop a Poisson and Random Forest (RF) regression model. The results indicate that the RF model performs (R2=0.75) better than the Poisson regression model (R2=0.57). RF model MAPE is 32 for high (>137 equivalent Annual Average daily bicycle traffic (AADBT)) and 45 for mid-volume sites (52-137 AADBT); however, low-volume sites (<52 AADBT) are overestimated with high MAPE (97). The results also indicate that Strava commute, leisure trips, bike, and vehicle ownership status, population and housing density, slope, speed, and nearby universities are crucial predictors of ATT estimation. The developed methodology will provide guidelines for large-scale networkwide bicycle exposure estimation to the planners and engineers.
# Keywords: Bicycle, Exposure, Strava, Seasonality, Factor, Eco, Short-term, Counters
